# Welcome to the Streamsheets Application Help

<div class="warning">

<div class="title">

Warning

</div>

This documentation will soon be replaced by the new docmentation hosted
under <https://docs.cedalo.com/latest>.

</div>

Streamsheets are a new spreadsheet technology specifically designed for
the challenges and opportunities of digitization and the Industrial IoT.

With Streamsheets you make your data immediately understandable and
create IoT applications visually and interactively - without a single
line of code. This way also end-user are empowered to model individual
solutions and company-specific process logics.

They serve as an orchestration tool to connect digital "things" ranging
from sensors to enterprise software, apps and websites, to direct data
streams and to define both simple as well as very complex process
logics.

This help serves initially as a tutorial to guide you through the first
steps to define and use Streamsheets and to get an understanding, what
you can do with Streamsheets and how you do it. This help is also
intended as a reference to explain the different aspects and features of
the application in detail. It supports you during the development of
Streamsheets by providing specific information for the tasks, that need
to be accomplished.

If you are new to Streamsheets, you should start with the `introduction`
guide to get a quick overview of the core concept. Once this is clear,
we provide tutorials for the most common tasks in defining a Streamsheet
process.

Streamsheets is an open source project. Check out our
![Git](/images/Git.png)\_
[GitHub](https://github.com/cedalo/streamsheets) and leave us a star! ðŸ˜Š
More information about us on our [website](https://cedalo.com/) or check
out the [Streamsheets Forum](https://forum.streamsheets.com/).

Below you will find a list of all available topics of our documentation.

<div class="toctree" maxdepth="1" caption="User Documentation">

installation introduction maincomponents gettingstarted tutorials
functions others glossary releasenotes Cedalo
&lt;<http://www.cedalo.com>&gt; Forum
&lt;<https://forum.cedalo.com/>&gt;

</div>
